docs/python-server.md, before:

# Python Server Bases (`arp-standard-server`)

- PyPI distribution: `arp-standard-server`
- Import package: `arp_standard_server`
- Model package: `arp-standard-model` (`arp_standard_model`)

## Install

```bash
python3 -m pip install arp-standard-server
```

## Basic usage

```python
from arp_standard_server.run_gateway import BaseRunGatewayServer
from arp_standard_server import AuthSettings
from arp_standard_model import (
    Health,
    Run,
    RunGatewayCancelRunRequest,
    RunGatewayGetRunRequest,
    RunGatewayHealthRequest,
    RunGatewayStartRunRequest,
    RunGatewayStreamRunEventsRequest,
    RunGatewayVersionRequest,
    VersionInfo,
)

class MyRunGateway(BaseRunGatewayServer):
    async def cancel_run(self, request: RunGatewayCancelRunRequest) -> Run:
        return ...

    async def get_run(self, request: RunGatewayGetRunRequest) -> Run:
        return ...

    async def health(self, request: RunGatewayHealthRequest) -> Health:
        return ...

    async def start_run(self, request: RunGatewayStartRunRequest) -> Run:
        body = request.body
        # business logic here
        return ...

    async def stream_run_events(self, request: RunGatewayStreamRunEventsRequest) -> str:
        return ""

    async def version(self, request: RunGatewayVersionRequest) -> VersionInfo:
        return ...

app = MyRunGateway().create_app(auth_settings=AuthSettings(mode="disabled"))
```

## Service base classes

- `BaseRunGatewayServer`
- `BaseRunCoordinatorServer`
- `BaseAtomicExecutorServer`
- `BaseCompositeExecutorServer`
- `BaseNodeRegistryServer`
- `BaseSelectionServer`
- `BasePdpServer`

## Authentication (JWT Bearer)

```python
app = MyRunGateway().create_app(
    auth_settings=AuthSettings(
        mode="required",
        issuer="https://issuer.example.com/realms/arp",
        audience="arp-run-gateway",
    )
)
```

See also: [`docs/security-profiles.md`](security-profiles.md) for the standard auth configuration profiles (`Dev-Insecure`, `Dev-Secure-Keycloak`, `Enterprise`).

## Request objects

Server methods accept a single request object from `arp_standard_model`:

- `*Params` for path/query parameters
- `*RequestBody` for JSON bodies
- `*Request` wrappers with `params` and/or `body`

## Validation errors

FastAPI request validation errors are mapped to an ARP `ErrorEnvelope` with HTTP 400.

## Wire format and serialization

Requests and responses use the exact JSON field names from the spec (no aliasing). When you serialize models manually, use `model_dump(exclude_none=True)`.

## Abstract method enforcement

Base server classes use `ABC` + `@abstractmethod`. Instantiating a class that does not implement all required endpoints raises a `TypeError` before the app is created.

## Streaming (NDJSON)

NDJSON endpoints currently use plain text payloads. Streaming helpers are planned but not implemented yet.

## Generate locally (developers)

Run these from the repository root.

```bash
python3 -m pip install -r tools/codegen/python/model/requirements.txt
python3 -m pip install -r tools/codegen/python/server/requirements.txt

python3 tools/codegen/python/model/generate.py --version v1
python3 tools/codegen/python/server/generate.py --version v1
```

## Spec reference

`arp_standard_server.SPEC_REF` exposes the spec tag (for example, `spec/v1@v0.3.1`) used to generate the package.

Commit message:

update doc on response payload

docs/python-server.md, after:

# Python Server Bases (`arp-standard-server`)

- PyPI distribution: `arp-standard-server`
- Import package: `arp_standard_server`
- Model package: `arp-standard-model` (`arp_standard_model`)

## Install

```bash
python3 -m pip install arp-standard-server
```

## Basic usage

```python
from arp_standard_server.run_gateway import BaseRunGatewayServer
from arp_standard_server import AuthSettings
from arp_standard_model import (
    Health,
    Run,
    RunGatewayCancelRunRequest,
    RunGatewayGetRunRequest,
    RunGatewayHealthRequest,
    RunGatewayStartRunRequest,
    RunGatewayStreamRunEventsRequest,
    RunGatewayVersionRequest,
    VersionInfo,
)

class MyRunGateway(BaseRunGatewayServer):
    async def cancel_run(self, request: RunGatewayCancelRunRequest) -> Run:
        return ...

    async def get_run(self, request: RunGatewayGetRunRequest) -> Run:
        return ...

    async def health(self, request: RunGatewayHealthRequest) -> Health:
        return ...

    async def start_run(self, request: RunGatewayStartRunRequest) -> Run:
        body = request.body
        # business logic here
        return ...

    async def stream_run_events(self, request: RunGatewayStreamRunEventsRequest) -> str:
        return ""

    async def version(self, request: RunGatewayVersionRequest) -> VersionInfo:
        return ...

app = MyRunGateway().create_app(auth_settings=AuthSettings(mode="disabled"))
```

## Service base classes

- `BaseRunGatewayServer`
- `BaseRunCoordinatorServer`
- `BaseAtomicExecutorServer`
- `BaseCompositeExecutorServer`
- `BaseNodeRegistryServer`
- `BaseSelectionServer`
- `BasePdpServer`

## Authentication (JWT Bearer)

```python
app = MyRunGateway().create_app(
    auth_settings=AuthSettings(
        mode="required",
        issuer="https://issuer.example.com/realms/arp",
        audience="arp-run-gateway",
    )
)
```

See also: [`docs/security-profiles.md`](security-profiles.md) for the standard auth configuration profiles (`Dev-Insecure`, `Dev-Secure-Keycloak`, `Enterprise`).

## Request objects

Server methods accept a single request object from `arp_standard_model`:

- `*Params` for path/query parameters
- `*RequestBody` for JSON bodies
- `*Request` wrappers with `params` and/or `body`

## Response payloads

Server methods return the spec-defined payload objects directly (for example: `Run`, `Health`, `VersionInfo`) rather
than service-specific `*Response` wrappers. For forward-compatible additions, use `extensions` (and `metadata` where
available); arbitrary top-level fields are not allowed by the schemas (`additionalProperties: false`).

## Validation errors

FastAPI request validation errors are mapped to an ARP `ErrorEnvelope` with HTTP 400.

## Wire format and serialization

Requests and responses use the exact JSON field names from the spec (no aliasing). When you serialize models manually, use `model_dump(exclude_none=True)`.

## Abstract method enforcement

Base server classes use `ABC` + `@abstractmethod`. Instantiating a class that does not implement all required endpoints raises a `TypeError` before the app is created.

## Streaming (NDJSON)

NDJSON endpoints currently use plain text payloads. Streaming helpers are planned but not implemented yet.

## Generate locally (developers)

Run these from the repository root.

```bash
python3 -m pip install -r tools/codegen/python/model/requirements.txt
python3 -m pip install -r tools/codegen/python/server/requirements.txt

python3 tools/codegen/python/model/generate.py --version v1
python3 tools/codegen/python/server/generate.py --version v1
```

## Spec reference

`arp_standard_server.SPEC_REF` exposes the spec tag (for example, `spec/v1@v0.3.1`) used to generate the package.
